What is docker?

Docker is a container based file sharing system. whole project is convert into a single file called docker 
image,then its executed in docker container. in other words we don't have install necessary applications
instead we can run it without installing them which saves time and unnecessary problems.we can host these 
files either publicly or privately. to publicly we can use docker hub.

Docker Image:

    The whole project, config, packages are put in a single file. this file is read only. it has layers.
    basic layer is os and top layer is application. 
    When installing two versions of a image and in newer versions, the files of older versions is occurs, 
    it skips these files and only installs newer ones

Docker Container:
    Its runtime environment for docker image.it executes the image file.

Example:

    Node.js - this a image file

    docker pull nodejs -version - this pulls nodejs image from public hub to our local.
    after it finishes installing the docker container runs the image.

    nodejs 9.10 running

Difference between VM And Docker:

Both are virtualization tools but the thing is what they virtual. VM virtual OS And Applications 
but docker only virtual Applications. docker images are smaller sizes but in the other hand it can 
only run hosts docker image. example, can't run linux docker image in windows pc.

Difference between image and container

container is a running environment for image

virtual file system
port bonded: talk to application running inside or container
application image: redis,mongo


commends:

docker pull 'image name' - pull image from docker hub
docker run:version 'image name' - run image in a container environment or pull image then starts container
docker run -d 'image name' - run image in detach mode
docker ps - shows all running containers
docker stop 'container id' - stops the container
docker start 'container id' - starts STOPPED container
docker ps -a - shows running and stopped containers
